# Learn Python the Right Way - Exercise 02

## What's in a Programming Language?

Nearly every programming language has some similar features. There are ways to store information, ways to manipulate that information, and a collection of words and symbol in the language which perform predefined actions. In most cases, we call these variables, operators, and keywords. 

These features are typically combined together to form statements. A statement in a programming language is just like a statement in the English language, and represents a complete thought of some computation to perform.

For this exercise, we'll be using the Python Command Line Interpreter (CLI). To start the CLI, run the command `python` on the command line. Some text will appear, followed by a `>>> ` prompt. The prompt will wait until you type enter and treat the rest of the line as a Python statment. To get out of the interpreter either type `exit()` or press the `Ctrl-d` key combination.

### Variables

A variable in Python is a name which refers to a space in memory where some value is stored. Creating a variable looks something like the following:

    >>> pi = 3.14

The above line will create a variable named `pi`, and assign the memory that the variable references to hold the value `3.14`. You can then access that value by using the name `x` in a statement.

### Operators

The `=` in the line of code above is what is called the assignment operator. An operator defines some action to perform on the operands that appear around it. In the above case, the assignment operator takes the value `3.14` on the right hand side, and assigns it to the name `pi` that appears on the left hand side.

The following are some of the most useful operators and examples of what they do. Many of these act like their mathematical counterparts. 

    >>> x = 10
    >>> y = 5
    >>> x + y
    15
    >>> x - y
    5
    >>> x * y
    50
    >>> x / y
    2
    >>> -x # Some operators only take one operand
    -10
    >>> x ** 2 # This is the exponential operator read "x squared"
    100
    >>> # Writing a '#' will turn the rest of the line into a comment
    >>> # Python will ignore these lines, so you can use them for keeping 
    >>> # notes and explaining your code to others.

This is only a few of the operators, others will be used as needed, and you are encouraged to research the other operators that are defined in the language. 

It is also important to note that you can have constants in statements, as in the `>>> x = 10` and `>>> x ** 2` lines.

### Keywords

Keywords define many different things within the language, but the two you've seen already, `from` and `import`, bring extra features into the interpreter from external sources. They'll be explained more in depth later. 

There are many other keywords that effect the order in which the interpreter reads statements, that define new objects and new types of objects, or to delete objects you don't need. All of these will be introduced and explained as we need them.

## Drills

* Look up the list of Python operators, see how many of them you can figure out
* Use the CLI as a calculator to solve a few simple math problems, use a mix of variable names and constants in the calculations
